README.md, before:

# MailBridge

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/matthewshammond/mailbridge">
    <img src="mailbridge-wide.png" alt="MailBridge Logo" width="500"/>
  </a>
  <h3>A modern, secure, and efficient form submission and email response system</h3>
</div>

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Setup](#setup)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Configuration Files](#configuration-files)
    - [config.yml](#configyml)
    - [responses.json](#responsesjson)
    - [compose.yaml](#composeyaml)
  - [Website Integration](#website-integration)
    - [CAPTCHA Setup](#captcha-setup)
      - [reCAPTCHA](#recaptcha)
      - [hCaptcha](#hcaptcha)
    - [Form Implementations](#form-implementations)
      - [Basic Form](#basic-form-implementation)
      - [Simple jQuery](#simple-jquery-implementation)
      - [Complete Form (without CAPTCHA)](#complete-form-implementation-without-captcha)
      - [Complete Form (with CAPTCHA)](#complete-form-implementation-with-captcha)
  - [Running Services](#running-services)
  - [Testing](#testing)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- FastAPI backend with async support
- Docker containerization
- Redis for rate limiting and caching
- iCloud SMTP integration
- Automated email responses
- Form submission handling
- Rate limiting
- CORS support
- Gzip compression
- CAPTCHA support (optional)
- Multiple email alias support

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/matthewshammond/mailbridge.git
cd mailbridge
```

2. Update the `.env` file with your iCloud settings:
```bash
# iCloud settings
ICLOUD_EMAIL=your_icloud_email@icloud.com
ICLOUD_PASSWORD=your_app_specific_password

# Optional: Customize the 'From' name and email address for outgoing emails
MAILBRIDGE_FROM_NAME="Your Company Name"   # Defaults to 'MailBridge' if not set
MAILBRIDGE_FROM_EMAIL=your_alias@yourdomain.com   # Defaults to ICLOUD_EMAIL if not set

# Pushover integration (for push notifications)
PUSHOVER_ENABLED=true                # Set to 'true' to enable, 'false' to disable
PUSHOVER_USER_KEY=your_user_key      # Your Pushover user key
PUSHOVER_API_TOKEN=your_api_token    # Your Pushover application API token
```

Note: The SMTP host (smtp.mail.me.com) and port (587) are hardcoded in the application as these are standard iCloud SMTP settings. Instance configuration (PORT and INSTANCE_EMAILS) is handled in the compose.yaml file.

### Configuration Files

1. **config.yml** - Form and domain configuration:

```yaml
forms:
  contact_form:
    key: "your-form-key"
    to_email: ["contact@example.com"]
    allowed_domains: ["https://example.com"]
    from_name: "Your Name"
    rate_limit: 5  # requests per minute

  another_form:
    key: "another-form-key"
    to_email: ["info@example.com"]
    allowed_domains: ["https://example.com"]
    from_name: "Your Name"
    rate_limit: 5  # requests per minute
```

2. **responses.json** - Email templates and responses:

```json
{
  "contact@example.com": {
    "subjects": {
      "general": "Re: %s",
      "support": "Re: Support Request - %s",
      "feedback": "Re: Feedback - %s"
    },
    "form_submission_template": {
      "subject": "New Submission with subject: %s",
      "body": "<p>Name: %s<br>Email: %s<br>Subject: %s<br><br>%s</p>"
    },
    "response_templates": {
      "general": "<p>Thank you for your message. We will get back to you soon.</p>",
      "support": "<p>Thank you for contacting support. We will address your issue shortly.</p>",
      "feedback": "<p>Thank you for your feedback. We appreciate your input.</p>"
    },
    "signature": "<p>Best regards,<br>Your Name</p>"
  },
  "info@example.com": {
    "subjects": {
      "general": "Re: %s",
      "inquiry": "Re: Inquiry - %s"
    },
    "form_submission_template": {
      "subject": "New Submission with subject: %s",
      "body": "<p>Name: %s<br>Email: %s<br>Subject: %s<br><br>%s</p>"
    },
    "response_templates": {
      "general": "<p>Thank you for your message. We will get back to you soon.</p>",
      "inquiry": "<p>Thank you for your inquiry. We will respond shortly.</p>"
    },
    "signature": "<p>Best regards,<br>Your Name</p>"
  }
}
```

3. **compose.yaml** - Docker services configuration:

```yaml
services:
  redis:
    image: redis:7-alpine
    container_name: mailbridge-redis
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - redis_data:/data
    deploy:
      resources:
        limits:
          cpus: '0.25'
          memory: 256M

  mailbridge:
    build: .
    container_name: mailbridge
    restart: unless-stopped
    env_file: .env
    environment:
      - PORT=2525
      - INSTANCE_EMAILS=info@example.com,contact@website.com
      - REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379
    volumes:
      - ./config:/config
    ports:
      - "2525:2525"
    depends_on:
      - redis
    deploy:
      resources:
        limits:
          cpus: '0.5'
          memory: 512M
      restart_policy:
        condition: on-failure
        max_attempts: 3
        window: 120s

volumes:
  redis_data:
```

### Website Integration

#### CAPTCHA Setup

Before implementing the form, you need to set up CAPTCHA protection. Both options are free for personal and small business use:

1. **reCAPTCHA (by Google) - Recommended**:
   - Free for up to 10,000 assessments per month
   - Invisible to users (better user experience)
   - Better spam detection
   - Go to https://www.google.com/recaptcha/admin
   - Sign in with your Google account
   - Click "Register a new site"
   - Choose "reCAPTCHA v3" (recommended)
   - Add your domain(s)
   - You'll receive two keys:
     - Site Key: Use this in your website code
     - Secret Key: Add this to your MailBridge configuration

2. **hCaptcha**:
   - Free for personal and small business use
   - Privacy-focused alternative to Google
   - Requires users to complete a visual challenge
   - Go to https://dashboard.hcaptcha.com/
   - Create an account
   - Add your website
   - You'll receive two keys:
     - Site Key: Use this in your website code
     - Secret Key: Add this to your MailBridge configuration

After getting your keys, update your MailBridge configuration:

```yaml
# In config.yml
forms:
    your-form-key:
        # ... other settings ...
        captcha:
            provider: "recaptcha"  # or "hcaptcha"
            secret_key: "your-secret-key-here"
```

#### Form Implementations

##### Basic Form Implementation

Add this HTML to your website:

```html
<form id="contact" method="post">
    <input type="text" name="name" required placeholder="Your Name">
    <input type="email" name="email" required placeholder="Your Email">
    <input type="text" name="subject" required placeholder="Subject">
    <textarea name="content" required placeholder="Your Message"></textarea>
    <button type="submit">Send Message</button>
</form>
```

##### Simple jQuery Implementation

```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    $("#contact").submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        $.ajax({
            url: "https://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
            method: "POST",
            data: $(this).serialize(),
            dataType: "json",
            success: function(data) {
                alert("Message sent successfully!");
            },
            error: function(err) {
                alert("Error sending message");
            }
        });
    });
});
```

##### Complete Form Implementation (without CAPTCHA)

```html
<form id="contact" method="post">
    <div class="form-group">
        <input type="text" name="name" required placeholder="Your Name">
    </div>
    <div class="form-group">
        <input type="email" name="email" required placeholder="Your Email">
    </div>
    <div class="form-group">
        <input type="text" name="subject" required placeholder="Subject">
    </div>
    <div class="form-group">
        <textarea name="content" required placeholder="Your Message"></textarea>
    </div>
    <button type="submit">Send Message</button>
    <div class="overlay">
        <div></div>
    </div>
</form>

<style>
.form-group {
    margin-bottom: 1rem;
}
input, textarea {
    width: 100%;
    padding: 0.5rem;
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
    border-radius: 4px;
}
textarea {
    height: 150px;
    resize: vertical;
}
button {
    background: #007bff;
    color: white;
    padding: 0.5rem 1rem;
    border: none;
    border-radius: 4px;
    cursor: pointer;
}
.overlay {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);
    display: none;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
}
.overlay > div {
    background: white;
    padding: 2rem;
    border-radius: 4px;
    max-width: 400px;
    width: 100%;
}
</style>

<script>
$(document).ready(function() {
    var $contactForm = $("#contact");
    $contactForm.submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        $.ajax({
            url: "https://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
            method: "POST",
            data: $(this).serialize(),
            dataType: "json",
            beforeSend: function() {
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div")
                    .html('<div class="alert alert--loading"><i class="fa fa-circle-o-notch fa-spin"></i> Sending message...</div>');
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            },
            success: function(data) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div")
                    .html('<div class="alert alert--success"><i class="fa fa-check"></i> Message sent successfully!</div>');
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                setTimeout(function() {
                    window.location.href = "https://your-website.com/thank-you";
                }, 3000);
            },
            error: function(err) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div")
                    .html('<div class="alert alert--error"><i class="fa fa-warning"></i> Error sending message</div>');
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            }
        });
    });
    $contactForm.find(".overlay").click(function(e) {
        $(this).fadeOut();
    });
});
</script>
```

##### Complete Form Implementation (with CAPTCHA)

1. Add this to your website's HTML:
```html
<!-- Add reCAPTCHA script (choose one) -->
<script src="https://www.google.com/recaptcha/api.js?render=your-site-key"></script>
<!-- OR hCaptcha script -->
<script src="https://js.hcaptcha.com/1/api.js" async defer></script>

<!-- Add jQuery -->
<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.7.1.min.js"></script>

<!-- Add Font Awesome for icons -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">

<!-- Form HTML -->
<form id="contact-form" class="pure-form">
    <div class="meta">
        <input type="text" name="name" placeholder="Name" required>
        <input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" required>
        <input type="text" name="subject" placeholder="Subject" required>
    </div>
    <textarea name="content" placeholder="Your message" rows="7" required></textarea>
    
    <!-- Add hCaptcha widget (if using hCaptcha) -->
    <div class="h-captcha" data-sitekey="your-site-key"></div>
    
    <button type="submit">
        <i class="fa fa-send-o"></i> Send
    </button>
    <div class="overlay">
        <div></div>
    </div>
</form>
```

2. Add the CSS:
```css
#contact-form {
    max-width: 600px;
    margin: 0 auto;
    padding: 20px;
    position: relative;
}

#contact-form .meta {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(200px, 1fr));
    gap: 10px;
    margin-bottom: 10px;
}

#contact-form input,
#contact-form textarea {
    width: 100%;
    padding: 10px;
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
    border-radius: 4px;
}

#contact-form textarea {
    height: 150px;
    resize: vertical;
}

#contact-form button {
    background: #007bff;
    color: white;
    padding: 10px 20px;
    border: none;
    border-radius: 4px;
    cursor: pointer;
    margin-top: 10px;
}

#contact-form button:disabled {
    background: #ccc;
    cursor: not-allowed;
}

#contact-form .overlay {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);
    display: none;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
}

#contact-form .overlay > div {
    background: white;
    padding: 20px;
    border-radius: 4px;
    max-width: 400px;
    width: 100%;
}

.alert {
    padding: 10px;
    border-radius: 4px;
    margin: 10px 0;
}

.alert--loading {
    background: #e3f2fd;
    color: #1976d2;
}

.alert--success {
    background: #e8f5e9;
    color: #2e7d32;
}

.alert--error {
    background: #ffebee;
    color: #c62828;
}

.fa {
    margin-right: 5px;
}

.fa-spin {
    animation: fa-spin 2s infinite linear;
}

@keyframes fa-spin {
    0% { transform: rotate(0deg); }
    100% { transform: rotate(360deg); }
}
```

3. Add the JavaScript (choose one based on your CAPTCHA provider):

#### With reCAPTCHA:
```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    var $contactForm = $("#contact-form");
    
    $contactForm.submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        
        // Get reCAPTCHA token
        grecaptcha.execute('your-site-key', {action: 'submit'}).then(function(token) {
            $.ajax({
                url: "http://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
                method: "POST",
                data: {
                    name: $contactForm.find('[name="name"]').val(),
                    email: $contactForm.find('[name="email"]').val(),
                    subject: $contactForm.find('[name="subject"]').val(),
                    content: $contactForm.find('[name="content"]').val(),
                    captcha_token: token
                },
                dataType: "json",
                beforeSend: function() {
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                        '<div class="alert alert--loading">' +
                        '<i class="fa fa-circle-o-notch fa-spin"></i> &nbsp; Sending message...</div>'
                    );
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                },
                success: function(data) {
                    $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                        '<div class="alert alert--success">' +
                        '<i class="fa fa-check"></i> &nbsp; Your message was sent successfully!</div>'
                    );
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                    
                    // Clear form after success
                    $contactForm.find("input, textarea").val("");
                },
                error: function(xhr) {
                    $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                    var errorMessage = xhr.responseJSON?.detail || "Oops, something went wrong.";
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                        '<div class="alert alert--error">' +
                        '<i class="fa fa-warning"></i> &nbsp; ' + errorMessage + '</div>'
                    );
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                }
            });
        });
    });
    
    // Close overlay when clicked
    $contactForm.find(".overlay").click(function(e) {
        $(this).fadeOut();
    });
});
```

#### With hCaptcha:
```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    var $contactForm = $("#contact-form");
    
    $contactForm.submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        
        var hcaptchaResponse = hcaptcha.getResponse();
        if (!hcaptchaResponse) {
            alert("Please complete the CAPTCHA");
            return;
        }
        
        $.ajax({
            url: "http://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
            method: "POST",
            data: {
                name: $contactForm.find('[name="name"]').val(),
                email: $contactForm.find('[name="email"]').val(),
                subject: $contactForm.find('[name="subject"]').val(),
                content: $contactForm.find('[name="content"]').val(),
                hcaptcha: hcaptchaResponse
            },
            dataType: "json",
            beforeSend: function() {
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                    '<div class="alert alert--loading">' +
                    '<i class="fa fa-circle-o-notch fa-spin"></i> &nbsp; Sending message...</div>'
                );
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            },
            success: function(data) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                    '<div class="alert alert--success">' +
                    '<i class="fa fa-check"></i> &nbsp; Your message was sent successfully!</div>'
                );
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                
                // Clear form after success
                $contactForm.find("input, textarea").val("");
                hcaptcha.reset(); // Reset CAPTCHA
            },
            error: function(xhr) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                var errorMessage = xhr.responseJSON?.detail || "Oops, something went wrong.";
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                    '<div class="alert alert--error">' +
                    '<i class="fa fa-warning"></i> &nbsp; ' + errorMessage + '</div>'
                );
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            }
        });
    });
    
    // Close overlay when clicked
    $contactForm.find(".overlay").click(function(e) {
        $(this).fadeOut();
    });
});
```

### Running Services

1. Build and start the services:
```bash
docker compose build
docker compose up -d
```

2. Check the logs:
```bash
docker compose logs -f
```

### Testing

1. Submit a test form to verify the submission process
2. Check your email to confirm receipt of the form submission
3. Verify that the automated response is sent correctly
4. Test rate limiting by submitting multiple forms quickly
5. Test CAPTCHA functionality if enabled

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Matt Hammond

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

fixed from name and from email for auto responses

README.md, after:

# MailBridge

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/matthewshammond/mailbridge">
    <img src="mailbridge-wide.png" alt="MailBridge Logo" width="500"/>
  </a>
  <h3>A modern, secure, and efficient form submission and email response system</h3>
</div>

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Setup](#setup)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Configuration Files](#configuration-files)
    - [config.yml](#configyml)
    - [responses.json](#responsesjson)
    - [compose.yaml](#composeyaml)
  - [Website Integration](#website-integration)
    - [CAPTCHA Setup](#captcha-setup)
    - [Form Implementations](#form-implementations)
      - [Basic Form Implementation](#basic-form-implementation)
      - [Simple jQuery Implementation](#simple-jquery-implementation)
      - [Complete Form Implementation (without CAPTCHA)](#complete-form-implementation-without-captcha)
      - [Complete Form Implementation (with CAPTCHA)](#complete-form-implementation-with-captcha)
  - [Running Services](#running-services)
  - [Testing](#testing)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- FastAPI backend with async support
- Docker containerization
- Redis for rate limiting and caching
- iCloud SMTP integration
- Automated email responses
- Form submission handling
- Rate limiting
- CORS support
- Gzip compression
- CAPTCHA support (optional)
- Multiple email alias support

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/matthewshammond/mailbridge.git
cd mailbridge
```

2. Update the `.env` file with your iCloud settings:
```bash
# iCloud settings (set in .env)
ICLOUD_EMAIL=your_icloud_email@icloud.com
ICLOUD_PASSWORD=your_app_specific_password

# Pushover integration (for push notifications)
PUSHOVER_ENABLED=true                # Set to 'true' to enable, 'false' to disable
PUSHOVER_USER_KEY=your_user_key      # Your Pushover user key
PUSHOVER_API_TOKEN=your_api_token    # Your Pushover application API token
```

> **Note:**
> - `PORT` and `INSTANCE_EMAILS` are typically set in `compose.yaml` as environment variables for the container, not in `.env` directly.
> - Use `.env.sample` as a starting point for your own `.env` file.
> - Per-form branding for outgoing emails (name and email) is set in `config/config.yml` under each form's `from_name` and `to_email`.

### Configuration Files

1. **config.yml** - Form and domain configuration:

```yaml
forms:
  contact_form:
    key: "your-form-key"
    to_email: ["contact@example.com"]
    allowed_domains: ["https://example.com"]
    from_name: "Your Name"
    rate_limit: 5  # requests per minute

  another_form:
    key: "another-form-key"
    to_email: ["info@example.com"]
    allowed_domains: ["https://example.com"]
    from_name: "Your Name"
    rate_limit: 5  # requests per minute
```

2. **responses.json** - Email templates and responses:

```json
{
  "contact@example.com": {
    "subjects": {
      "general": "Re: %s",
      "support": "Re: Support Request - %s",
      "feedback": "Re: Feedback - %s"
    },
    "form_submission_template": {
      "subject": "New Submission with subject: %s",
      "body": "<p>Name: %s<br>Email: %s<br>Subject: %s<br><br>%s</p>"
    },
    "response_templates": {
      "general": "<p>Thank you for your message. We will get back to you soon.</p>",
      "support": "<p>Thank you for contacting support. We will address your issue shortly.</p>",
      "feedback": "<p>Thank you for your feedback. We appreciate your input.</p>"
    },
    "signature": "<p>Best regards,<br>Your Name</p>"
  },
  "info@example.com": {
    "subjects": {
      "general": "Re: %s",
      "inquiry": "Re: Inquiry - %s"
    },
    "form_submission_template": {
      "subject": "New Submission with subject: %s",
      "body": "<p>Name: %s<br>Email: %s<br>Subject: %s<br><br>%s</p>"
    },
    "response_templates": {
      "general": "<p>Thank you for your message. We will get back to you soon.</p>",
      "inquiry": "<p>Thank you for your inquiry. We will respond shortly.</p>"
    },
    "signature": "<p>Best regards,<br>Your Name</p>"
  }
}
```

3. **compose.yaml** - Docker services configuration:

```yaml
services:
  redis:
    image: redis:7-alpine
    container_name: mailbridge-redis
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - redis_data:/data
    deploy:
      resources:
        limits:
          cpus: '0.25'
          memory: 256M

  mailbridge:
    build: .
    container_name: mailbridge
    restart: unless-stopped
    env_file: .env
    environment:
      - PORT=2525
      - INSTANCE_EMAILS=info@example.com,contact@website.com
      - REDIS_URL=redis://redis:6379
    volumes:
      - ./config:/config
    ports:
      - "2525:2525"
    depends_on:
      - redis
    deploy:
      resources:
        limits:
          cpus: '0.5'
          memory: 512M
      restart_policy:
        condition: on-failure
        max_attempts: 3
        window: 120s

volumes:
  redis_data:
```

### Website Integration

#### CAPTCHA Setup

Before implementing the form, you need to set up CAPTCHA protection. Both options are free for personal and small business use:

1. **reCAPTCHA (by Google) - Recommended**:
   - Free for up to 10,000 assessments per month
   - Invisible to users (better user experience)
   - Better spam detection
   - Go to https://www.google.com/recaptcha/admin
   - Sign in with your Google account
   - Click "Register a new site"
   - Choose "reCAPTCHA v3" (recommended)
   - Add your domain(s)
   - You'll receive two keys:
     - Site Key: Use this in your website code
     - Secret Key: Add this to your MailBridge configuration

2. **hCaptcha**:
   - Free for personal and small business use
   - Privacy-focused alternative to Google
   - Requires users to complete a visual challenge
   - Go to https://dashboard.hcaptcha.com/
   - Create an account
   - Add your website
   - You'll receive two keys:
     - Site Key: Use this in your website code
     - Secret Key: Add this to your MailBridge configuration

After getting your keys, update your MailBridge configuration:

```yaml
# In config.yml
forms:
    your-form-key:
        # ... other settings ...
        captcha:
            provider: "recaptcha"  # or "hcaptcha"
            secret_key: "your-secret-key-here"
```

#### Form Implementations

##### Basic Form Implementation

Add this HTML to your website:

```html
<form id="contact" method="post">
    <input type="text" name="name" required placeholder="Your Name">
    <input type="email" name="email" required placeholder="Your Email">
    <input type="text" name="subject" required placeholder="Subject">
    <textarea name="content" required placeholder="Your Message"></textarea>
    <button type="submit">Send Message</button>
</form>
```

##### Simple jQuery Implementation

```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    $("#contact").submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        $.ajax({
            url: "https://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
            method: "POST",
            data: $(this).serialize(),
            dataType: "json",
            success: function(data) {
                alert("Message sent successfully!");
            },
            error: function(err) {
                alert("Error sending message");
            }
        });
    });
});
```

##### Complete Form Implementation (without CAPTCHA)

```html
<form id="contact" method="post">
    <div class="form-group">
        <input type="text" name="name" required placeholder="Your Name">
    </div>
    <div class="form-group">
        <input type="email" name="email" required placeholder="Your Email">
    </div>
    <div class="form-group">
        <input type="text" name="subject" required placeholder="Subject">
    </div>
    <div class="form-group">
        <textarea name="content" required placeholder="Your Message"></textarea>
    </div>
    <button type="submit">Send Message</button>
    <div class="overlay">
        <div></div>
    </div>
</form>

<style>
.form-group {
    margin-bottom: 1rem;
}
input, textarea {
    width: 100%;
    padding: 0.5rem;
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
    border-radius: 4px;
}
textarea {
    height: 150px;
    resize: vertical;
}
button {
    background: #007bff;
    color: white;
    padding: 0.5rem 1rem;
    border: none;
    border-radius: 4px;
    cursor: pointer;
}
.overlay {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);
    display: none;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
}
.overlay > div {
    background: white;
    padding: 2rem;
    border-radius: 4px;
    max-width: 400px;
    width: 100%;
}
</style>

<script>
$(document).ready(function() {
    var $contactForm = $("#contact");
    $contactForm.submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        $.ajax({
            url: "https://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
            method: "POST",
            data: $(this).serialize(),
            dataType: "json",
            beforeSend: function() {
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div")
                    .html('<div class="alert alert--loading"><i class="fa fa-circle-o-notch fa-spin"></i> Sending message...</div>');
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            },
            success: function(data) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div")
                    .html('<div class="alert alert--success"><i class="fa fa-check"></i> Message sent successfully!</div>');
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                setTimeout(function() {
                    window.location.href = "https://your-website.com/thank-you";
                }, 3000);
            },
            error: function(err) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div")
                    .html('<div class="alert alert--error"><i class="fa fa-warning"></i> Error sending message</div>');
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            }
        });
    });
    $contactForm.find(".overlay").click(function(e) {
        $(this).fadeOut();
    });
});
</script>
```

##### Complete Form Implementation (with CAPTCHA)

1. Add this to your website's HTML:
```html
<!-- Add reCAPTCHA script (choose one) -->
<script src="https://www.google.com/recaptcha/api.js?render=your-site-key"></script>
<!-- OR hCaptcha script -->
<script src="https://js.hcaptcha.com/1/api.js" async defer></script>

<!-- Add jQuery -->
<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.7.1.min.js"></script>

<!-- Add Font Awesome for icons -->
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/font-awesome/4.7.0/css/font-awesome.min.css">

<!-- Form HTML -->
<form id="contact-form" class="pure-form">
    <div class="meta">
        <input type="text" name="name" placeholder="Name" required>
        <input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" required>
        <input type="text" name="subject" placeholder="Subject" required>
    </div>
    <textarea name="content" placeholder="Your message" rows="7" required></textarea>
    
    <!-- Add hCaptcha widget (if using hCaptcha) -->
    <div class="h-captcha" data-sitekey="your-site-key"></div>
    
    <button type="submit">
        <i class="fa fa-send-o"></i> Send
    </button>
    <div class="overlay">
        <div></div>
    </div>
</form>
```

2. Add the CSS:
```css
#contact-form {
    max-width: 600px;
    margin: 0 auto;
    padding: 20px;
    position: relative;
}

#contact-form .meta {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(200px, 1fr));
    gap: 10px;
    margin-bottom: 10px;
}

#contact-form input,
#contact-form textarea {
    width: 100%;
    padding: 10px;
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
    border-radius: 4px;
}

#contact-form textarea {
    height: 150px;
    resize: vertical;
}

#contact-form button {
    background: #007bff;
    color: white;
    padding: 10px 20px;
    border: none;
    border-radius: 4px;
    cursor: pointer;
    margin-top: 10px;
}

#contact-form button:disabled {
    background: #ccc;
    cursor: not-allowed;
}

#contact-form .overlay {
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    left: 0;
    right: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.5);
    display: none;
    justify-content: center;
    align-items: center;
}

#contact-form .overlay > div {
    background: white;
    padding: 20px;
    border-radius: 4px;
    max-width: 400px;
    width: 100%;
}

.alert {
    padding: 10px;
    border-radius: 4px;
    margin: 10px 0;
}

.alert--loading {
    background: #e3f2fd;
    color: #1976d2;
}

.alert--success {
    background: #e8f5e9;
    color: #2e7d32;
}

.alert--error {
    background: #ffebee;
    color: #c62828;
}

.fa {
    margin-right: 5px;
}

.fa-spin {
    animation: fa-spin 2s infinite linear;
}

@keyframes fa-spin {
    0% { transform: rotate(0deg); }
    100% { transform: rotate(360deg); }
}
```

3. Add the JavaScript (choose one based on your CAPTCHA provider):

#### With reCAPTCHA:
```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    var $contactForm = $("#contact-form");
    
    $contactForm.submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        
        // Get reCAPTCHA token
        grecaptcha.execute('your-site-key', {action: 'submit'}).then(function(token) {
            $.ajax({
                url: "http://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
                method: "POST",
                data: {
                    name: $contactForm.find('[name="name"]').val(),
                    email: $contactForm.find('[name="email"]').val(),
                    subject: $contactForm.find('[name="subject"]').val(),
                    content: $contactForm.find('[name="content"]').val(),
                    captcha_token: token
                },
                dataType: "json",
                beforeSend: function() {
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                        '<div class="alert alert--loading">' +
                        '<i class="fa fa-circle-o-notch fa-spin"></i> &nbsp; Sending message...</div>'
                    );
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                },
                success: function(data) {
                    $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                        '<div class="alert alert--success">' +
                        '<i class="fa fa-check"></i> &nbsp; Your message was sent successfully!</div>'
                    );
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                    
                    // Clear form after success
                    $contactForm.find("input, textarea").val("");
                },
                error: function(xhr) {
                    $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                    var errorMessage = xhr.responseJSON?.detail || "Oops, something went wrong.";
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                        '<div class="alert alert--error">' +
                        '<i class="fa fa-warning"></i> &nbsp; ' + errorMessage + '</div>'
                    );
                    $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                }
            });
        });
    });
    
    // Close overlay when clicked
    $contactForm.find(".overlay").click(function(e) {
        $(this).fadeOut();
    });
});
```

#### With hCaptcha:
```javascript
$(document).ready(function() {
    var $contactForm = $("#contact-form");
    
    $contactForm.submit(function(e) {
        e.preventDefault();
        
        var hcaptchaResponse = hcaptcha.getResponse();
        if (!hcaptchaResponse) {
            alert("Please complete the CAPTCHA");
            return;
        }
        
        $.ajax({
            url: "http://your-mailbridge-server:2525/api/v1/form/your-form-key",
            method: "POST",
            data: {
                name: $contactForm.find('[name="name"]').val(),
                email: $contactForm.find('[name="email"]').val(),
                subject: $contactForm.find('[name="subject"]').val(),
                content: $contactForm.find('[name="content"]').val(),
                hcaptcha: hcaptchaResponse
            },
            dataType: "json",
            beforeSend: function() {
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                    '<div class="alert alert--loading">' +
                    '<i class="fa fa-circle-o-notch fa-spin"></i> &nbsp; Sending message...</div>'
                );
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            },
            success: function(data) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                    '<div class="alert alert--success">' +
                    '<i class="fa fa-check"></i> &nbsp; Your message was sent successfully!</div>'
                );
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
                
                // Clear form after success
                $contactForm.find("input, textarea").val("");
                hcaptcha.reset(); // Reset CAPTCHA
            },
            error: function(xhr) {
                $contactForm.find(".alert--loading").hide();
                var errorMessage = xhr.responseJSON?.detail || "Oops, something went wrong.";
                $contactForm.find(".overlay div").html(
                    '<div class="alert alert--error">' +
                    '<i class="fa fa-warning"></i> &nbsp; ' + errorMessage + '</div>'
                );
                $contactForm.find(".overlay").fadeIn();
            }
        });
    });
    
    // Close overlay when clicked
    $contactForm.find(".overlay").click(function(e) {
        $(this).fadeOut();
    });
});
```

### Running Services

1. Build and start the services:
```bash
docker compose build
docker compose up -d
```

2. Check the logs:
```bash
docker compose logs -f
```

### Testing

1. Submit a test form to verify the submission process
2. Check your email to confirm receipt of the form submission
3. Verify that the automated response is sent correctly
4. Test rate limiting by submitting multiple forms quickly
5. Test CAPTCHA functionality if enabled

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Matt Hammond

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
